# TIRPClo – Complete Time Intervals-Related Patterns Mining

## Introduction 
Welcome!

We are extremely happy to submit our paper – **_Complete Time Intervals-Related Patterns Mining_** to the *Journal of the ACM*. 

The paper introduces the **_TIRPClo_** algorithm, which we are happy to make available online.

TIRPClo is a time intervals mining algorithm that efficiently and completely discovers:
- The _entire set_ of frequent TIRPs

- The set of frequent _closed_ TIRPs

This repository enables the complete reproducibility of our experimental results, 
and we are highly confident that it will contribute to future research in the field of time intervals mining.

## Repository Contents
The contents of this repository are as follows: 
- The complete implementation of the TIRPClo algorithm, implemented in Visual C#

- Implementations of the competitor methods
  - KarmaLego (Moskovitch and Shahar 2015)
  - CCMiner (Chen et al. 2016)
  - ZMiner (Lee at al. 2020)
  
- The time intervals datasets on which the algorithms' performance has been evaluated in the paper, including various real-world and synthetic datasets

- Our random synthetic datasets generator 
	 
## Code
In the paper's evaluation TIRPClo is compared to the **_KarmaLego_** and **_ZMiner_** algorithms in the discovery of the _entire_ set of frequent TIRPs, 
while it is compared to the **_CCMiner_** algorithm in the discovery of the frequent _closed_ TIRPs.

### Entire Frequent TIRPs Discovery 
The implementations of the methods for the discovery of all the frequent TIRPs (i.e., TIRPClo, KarmaLego and ZMiner) are available [here](EntireTIRPs), including:
- **_TIRPClo_**: The code of the TIRPClo algorithm, implemented in Visual C#
- **_KarmaLego_**: The _original_ C# implementation of the KarmaLego algorithm, provided by (Moskovitch and Shahar 2015)
- **_ZMiner_**: A C# implementation of the ZMiner algorithm, which is a _step-by-step translation_ of the original [python implementation](https://github.com/zedshape/zminer)</ins> published by the authors (Lee et al. 2020) 

### Frequent Closed TIRPs Discovery 
The implementations of the methods for the discovery of the frequent closed TIRPs (i.e., TIRPClo and CCMiner) are available [here](ClosedTIRPs), including:  
- **_TIRPClo_**: The code of the TIRPClo algorithm, implemented in Visual C#
- **_CCMiner_**: A Visual C# implementation of the CCMiner algorithm (Chen et al. 2016) 

### NOTE 
In order to conduct as fair comparison as possible between all the compared methods, we made sure that:
- Language: All methods are implemented in the same programming language – i.e., C#

- Input:
  - The input format of all methods is identical (explained in [Datasets](#Datasets) in detail)
  - The input is read and parsed using the exact same code

- Output:
  - The output format of all methods is identical (exaplined in [Output](#Output) in detail)
  - All methods write to the output file one TIRP at a time (i.e., as soon as a new TIRP is discovered, it is written to the output of the algorithm), using the exact same code

## Datasets
- **_Location_**: All the datasets which have been used for TIRPClo's evaluation are available [here](Datasets) 

- **_Contents_**: 
  - Real-world datasets, including all the publicly available time intervals datasets, as well as all the real-world datasets which have been used by the authors of the competitor methods' papers
    - ASL (Papapetrou et al. 2009)
    - Two versions of the diabetes dataset (Moskovitch and Shahar 2015)
    - Smart-home (Jakkula and Cook 2011)
    - ASL-BU, ASL-GT, Blocks, Auslan2, Context, Pioneer and Skating (Mörchen and Fradkin 2010)
  - Synthetic datasets
    - ST1, ST2, CT1 and CT2

- **_Format_**: The datasets are in a *.csv* format, which contains the following information
  - Total number of entities' symbolic time intervals (STIs) series in the dataset
  - Two rows for each specific entity's STIS series
    - The first row contains the entity ID
    - The second row contains the entity's ordered STIs series, in which each STI is represented as a triplet of a start-time, a finish-time and a symbol; separated by commas. Successive STIs are separated by a semicolon

- **_Description_**: For each dataset, a *{dataset}.txt* file is supplied, which lists the dataset's main properties

- **_Note_**: For simplicity, a copy of the datasets directory is also available under each algorithm's project directory in the path *{algorithm}/{algorithm}/bin/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/Datasets/*

## Synthetic Datasets Generator 
In order to examine the methods' performance in extreme scenarios which are not met by the real-world datasets (e.g., an extremely large number of STIs or symbol types), 
experiments were also conducted on several synthetic datasets. The synthetic datasets have been generated by our [synthetic datasets generator](SyntheticDatasetsGenerator). 

The generator requires the following seven input parameters (default values and a running example are 
supplied within the [DatasetsGenerator.cs](SyntheticDatasetsGenerator/SyntheticDatasetsGenerator/DatasetsGenerator.cs) file):
- _`{minE,maxE}`_ – lower and upper bounds for the total number of entities in the dataset. The number of entities is selected uniformly at random between _`minE`_ and _`maxE`_
- _`{minSTIs,maxSTIs}`_ – lower and upper bounds for the number of STIs within a single entity's STIs series. For each entity, its total number of STIs is selected uniformly at random between _`minSTIs`_ and _`maxSTIs`_
- _`maxDuration`_ – the maximal time duration of a single STI
- _`maxTimestamp`_ – the maximal timestamp at which a STI may start
- _`maxS`_ – the maximal number of symbol types

## Dependencies
- Visual Studio 2015/2017/2019

- .NET Core 2.1 Framework

## Running Instructions
The recommended way to execute each of the algorithms on a selected dataset is as follows:
1. Download the repository and install the dependencies

2. Open the desired algorithm's project using Visual Studio

3. Right-click the project directory in the solution explorer > Properties > Select ".NET Core 2.1" as the Target Framework > Save 

4. Open the _RunAlgorithm.cs_ file and set the following algorithm's execution parameters within the main function to the desired values 
(default values are supplied, see [Example](#Example))
    - Number of entities in the dataset
    - Minimum vertical support percentage
    - Maximal gap value
    - Path to the dataset (without the *".csv"* suffix)

5. Run the project
 
## Output
As soon as the algorithm terminates, the two following files are created within the same directory as the input dataset 
- The primary output file: *"{dataset name}-support-{minimum vertical support}-maxgap-{maximal gap}.txt"* – 
which stores the complete set of the discovered frequent TIRPs, including their features (e.g., vertical support) and their supporting instances
- Another file, named *"{primary output file name}-stats.txt"*, which contains the total execution duration in milliseconds

## Example
The following default parameters values are supplied within the _RunAlgorithm.cs_ file, which is available under each algorithm's project directory:
- _`number of entities=65`_
- _`minimum vertical support=50%`_
- _`maximal gap=50`_
- _`file path='Datasets/ASL/ASL'`_

Running the TIRPClo algorithm, for example, with this set of parameters values results in the discovered frequent TIRPs file 
*"ASL-support-50-maxgap-50.txt"*, as well as the *"ASL-support-50-maxgap-50.txt-stats.txt"* file, 
which contains the total time duration of the algorithm's execution. 
These files are created under the *TIRPClo/TIRPClo/bin/Debug/netcoreapp2.1/Datasets/ASL/* directory.
 
## References

[1] Chen, Y. C., Weng, J. T. Y., & Hui, L. (2016). A novel algorithm for mining closed temporal patterns from interval-based data. Knowledge and Information Systems, 46(1), 151-183.‏

[2] Jakkula, V., & Cook, D. (2011, August). Detecting anomalous sensor events in smart home data for enhancing the living experience. In Workshops at the twenty-fifth AAAI conference on artificial intelligence.‏

[3] Lee, Z., Lindgren, T., & Papapetrou, P. (2020, August). Z-Miner: An Efficient Method for Mining Frequent Arrangements of Event Intervals. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining (pp. 524-534).‏

[4] Mörchen, F., & Fradkin, D. (2010, April). Robust mining of time intervals with semi-interval partial order patterns. In Proceedings of the 2010 SIAM international conference on data mining (pp. 315-326). Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.‏

[5] Moskovitch, R., & Shahar, Y. (2015). Fast time intervals mining using the transitivity of temporal relations. Knowledge and Information Systems, 42(1), 21–48.‏

[6] Papapetrou, P., Kollios, G., Sclaroff, S., & Gunopulos, D. (2009). Mining frequent arrangements of temporal intervals. Knowledge and Information Systems, 21(2), 133.‏


